This directory contains patches which should be tested and fixed so they can
be merged with the sources.

Current patches
---------------

Game server in "scuola in ospedale" (on top of 0.0.14-branch diff)
 italy.diff

Widelands GGZ integration:
 widelands.netmenu.diff

Game-side channels (for running GGZ in windows):
 ggz-client-libs.channels.diff

GGZD Mysql phpbb - change the column names to match those used in phpbb
 mysql_phpbb.diff (oojah)

Log client versions in ggzd. The intent here is to allow better debugging and
trouble shooting when a player has a problem since it will be easy to see what
client and more importantly version they are running. It also potentially 
leads to the ability to suggest to the player through the server that a newer 
version of their client is available.
 client_version.diff (oojah)
 
Support for tcp_wrappers in ggzd. This patch work fine but could do with some 
more work. Specifically, ggzd doesn't log any denied accesses and the clients
(at least ggz-java) don't react very well to a denial since the connection is
closed without any communication taking place (or a new thread being created).
 ggzd_tcp_wrappers.diff (oojah)

Support for time-limited bans in ggzd. This patch gives players with the 
appropriate permission the ability to ban players for a time period based on 
their ip address. Nobody sees any ip addresses. The bans do not persist across
restarts of ggzd .This patch is in use on o.d.o and seems to be working ok. It
needs rework as it is a mess. Perhaps a new source file is the best solution.
More importantly, the general concept of bans needs to be better considered. 
This patch allows for some respite in the face of an annoying player, but 
something more permanent or tunable would be good as well. The ban duration is
hard coded to 15 minutes at the moment. At the very least this should either 
be a configuration option or be able to be chosen by the player making the 
ban.
 ggzd_ban.diff (oojah)

Support for run-time configurable table prefixes as are commonly employed by web
applications, so instead of using `users` as the table name, it could be `ggz_users`.
Only for pgsql and mysql.
 ggzd_table_prefixes.diff (oojah, 25/8/2007)


Old patches (just to keep it in memory)
---------------------------------------

Unicode in GGZ usernames according to a certain policy:
 ggzd+unicode.diff

Embedding ggzcore into game clients:
 ggz-client-libs.embedded.diff
 widelands.embedded.diff

Gensecure patches:
 ggz-0.0.5pre-gensecure.ggz-client-libs.patch
 ggz-0.0.5pre-gensecure.ggzd.patch
 ggz-0.0.5pre-gensecure.libggz.patch

 Those are of 2001-11-06 and provide TLS for client and server.

Spectators patches:
 ggz-0.0.5pre-spectators.ggz-cliens-libs.patch
 ggz-0.0.5pre-spectators.ggzd.patch
 ggz-0.0.5pre-spectators.libggz.patch

 Being created on 2002-01-14, they are _NOT_ tested, and miss some
 functionality like ggzdmod support.

GGZ support for Tuxman:
 ggz.tuxman.diff

Addition of NSS backend for SSL/TLS for libggz. This seems to be required
for future RedHat versions. It is based on Mozilla's NSPR and NSS libraries
which are surprisingly old and unpopular.
 libggz+nss.diff

