See the README.GGZ file for complete information on compiling the GGZ
client system.

ggz-client-libs requires that easysock be properly installed before
it can be built.

Installing ggz-client-libs
--------------------------

ggz-client-libs is also a very straight-forward installation.  By default,
both static and shared versions of the libraries will be built, and this may
be configured with the --disable-shared and --disable-static options to
configure.  You are once again urged to install as a shared library and you
must run ldconfig before proceeding to a client installation.

The ggz-client-libs installation controls several file locations which will
be used by the client and game installations.  These directories are as
follows:

  Directory	Default			What Goes Here
  ----------	--------------------	--------------
  GGZCONFDIR	$(prefix)/etc/		ggz.modules (config file)
  GGZGAMEDIR	$(prefix)/lib/ggz/	game module executables
  GGZDATADIR	$(prefix)/share/ggz/	game module datafiles (pixmaps, etc)

The default settings are sane for the standard install prefix of /usr/local,
however, if you are using /usr you will probably want to change the location
of GGZCONFDIR to /etc (rather than /usr/etc).  Here's how to configure the
three directories:

GGZCONFDIR can be set with the --sysconfdir option of configure.  GGZGAMEDIR
should be set with the --exec-prefix option to configure.  Note that this is
a prefix, and as such, a ggz subdirectory will be automatically created under
whatever path you choose.

GGZDATADIR should be set using --datadir.  Again, this will be treated as a
prefix, and the ggz subdirectory will be created automatically.

If you change these locations at a later time it is possible that the client
and/or games will stop working.  This can happen if a game cannot find it's
datafiles, or if ggz-client-libs cannot find a game module due to it being
installed under an old location.

No games will work at all if ggz-client-libs can no longer find the
ggz.modules file!  This is what keeps track of every game you have installed.

If you MUST move these directories at a later time, you should uninstall all
games and clients and rebuild them after reinstalling ggz-client-libs with
it's new values.

ggz-client-libs will install a simple program, ggz-config, which will enable
the client packages and game packages to install themselves properly with
the ggz-client-libs directory specifications.  This binary will end up in
the --bindir, which is $(prefix)/bin by default.  This can be anywhere as long
as it is in your path for future make invocations.

Typical Installation:
./configure --sysconfdir=/etc --prefix=/usr
make
make install (as root)
ldconfig /usr/lib (as root)
